all right so moving on to how we're
going to go ahead and create or add the
necessary sequel code to create our
database so we're going to build up the
necessary string but what we're going to
do is use the constants from our tasks
contract class rather than hard coding
the table and column names as you can
see in the comment so I'm going to come
down here and we'll start typing or do
log entry first and lagdi parentheses
ter comma on create calling starts then
on the next line we're going to type Val
s SQL in upper case equals three double
quotes create table dollar sign left or
right curly braces through the top two
casks contract dot table name and have
the closing write curly brace in a left
parenthesis then on the next line we're
going to put the dollar sign left or
right curly braces tasks contract dot
columns dot ID rot curly brace and it's
going to be integer space primary key
the space between them they're not
normal the space comma on the next line
don't assign left-to-right curly braces
we're doing the same but for the task in
the school name write curly brace and
it's going to be text not doll right and
the next two lines what I'm going to do
is just copy that twice it was going to
be easy to change it rather than topping
the whole thing it again
so tasks underscore name or task or name
we're going to make dot task and a small
description and that's also a text but
it's optional so we're going to remove
they're not null and the last line
instead of task comes called name we're
going to go with task and it's called
sort order
that's another text it's going to be an
integer then we've already established
in the previous video that that's
optional so I'm going to remove they're
not now instead what I'm going to do is
then delete the
come up we're going to add a parenthesis
there semicolon then I'm going to add
the three double quotes to close off the
string and on the end of the string I'm
going to do a dot Place indent then in
parentheses double quotes with a space
in between now we can confirm we've got
it right by logging the string of
checking the logcat
so let's add a logging entry in the next
line it's a lock type d parentheses ter
comma yes SQL and obviously logging will
help if we've made a mistake so that we
can check the sequel in our logcat with
our comment and you might be wondering
why I've used to replace indent on line
35 well that's to format the spaces at
the start of each line and while it's
not strictly necessary for the sequel to
work it does make checking a lot easier
so that looks pretty complicated
compared to the comment line above it
what I've done is replace all the hard
coded references to the column names in
the original string with the constants
that we've defined in our tasks contract
class now the sequel statement will be
exactly the same as it was and we'll see
that when we run the app and check the
logcat so you might be wondering why
I've gone to all the trouble of using
this complicated code when the simpler
string with hard-coded values would have
worked well there are a few reasons for
this we've created a contract that
defines the column names so that any
external programs that use our content
provider know which columns are
available in the database if we make a
mistake in typing one of the column
names either here or in the contract
then those external programs won't work
the names we've used in the contract
have to exactly match the column names
we use when we create the table building
up the sequel using the constants rather
than hard coding the names make sure
that they do match and it's a good rule
when programming the things should only
be defined once so having created those
constants for our column names we should
use them wherever we need to refer to
those columns so that's one reason but
another reason is that things have a way
of changing as an example let's say that
we're creating this app as
of a team and another programmer is
working on a different set of database
tables one of her tables also has a sort
order column so that when that tables
joined to ours the column names have
changed and we saw that when we joined
the artists and album tables in the
sequel videos both tables had a name
column so the albums table name column
became name column one now it is easy to
work around that by aliasing their
column names using the as keyword but
that means remembering to do so in every
query and there's no guarantee that
every programmer will use the same
aliases or apply them the same way
around so as a result the team decides
to change the name of your sort order
column so that there's no longer any
confusion now because you've done things
properly you can change it in the tasks
contract columns class five minutes
later you've released a new version to
testing and you're lazing in the Sun
outside Gil whose headquarters now if
you'd hard-coded the column name in all
your sequel statements you'd then have
to search every file in the project to
find all occurrences of sort order in
sequel statements and then change them
and enjoyed studio will let you do a
search and replace across files but you
do need to be very careful that you
haven't created a method or variable
that's also called sort order that's
going to take a lot longer and you may
introduce bugs by missing one of the
hard-coded column names or changing
another object by mistake and to provide
some perspective here your programs that
you develop may be used by thousands of
people for a decade or more and when you
view it like that a bit of extra work at
this stage is nothing compared to the
amount of times your code will be
executed of course I can't guarantee
that doing things properly will hand you
a job at Google what I can guarantee is
if you don't do things properly you
won't get that job at Google okay so
those are a couple of reasons for this
extra work and if you still not
convinced at this point in time please
just take my word for it for now and
let's move on all right so we know now
how to execute the sequel statement we
just pass it to the databases X X
we called method let's go ahead and do
that but we are going to get an error
here I'm gonna type DB don't exit sequel
I'm gonna pass the SC call string that
we created so hover over this now and
Cynthia is and we've got an error
basically because the code generator has
created the DB parameter as a nullable
type in google adding the non null
annotations to the android framework
code but they haven't got around to the
sequel I'd open helper class as of the
time I'm recording this now if you're
not confident changing the function
signatures when you work on your own
apps then you can use the Kotlin safe
call operator here so all you need to do
is change the statement by adding a
question mark after the DB and that
would certainly work but the source code
doesn't give any real indication that DB
can't be no but it just doesn't make any
sense for this function to be called
with an old database if it is our
program is going to crash anyway now
I'll just do it later when we come to
access a database that hasn't been
created so what I'm saying here is I'm
confident that DB won't be null if it
isn't though I prefer the app to crash
here rather than after the year you sirs
enter data and try to save it so we're
going to do is undo that change and
modify the function signature instead so
removing the question mark and then to
change the function signature we just
need to come up here to start off the
function and remove the question mark on
the end and that fixes the problem and
I'm also going to take this opportunity
to make DB a non nullable type in the on
upgrade function as well for the same
reason and we'll come back to that on
upgrade function later we nearly finish
with the app database class we're going
to make it a singleton to prevent
multiple instances being created I'm
going to talk more about that why we're
doing that and how to do it in the next
video